\,
F.No. 19047/1/2016-E.lV
Government of lndia
Ministry of Finance
Department of Expenditure
North Block, New Delhi.
Dated: 14.09.2017
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
Subjec,t: TA/DA entitlements of Non-otficials of Committees/Boards/Panels etc,
The undersigned is directed to state that the issues related to payment of TfuDA to Non-officials of
Committees/ Boards/ Panels etc. have been examined in D/o Expenditure. lt has been decided that TII/DA entttlement
of Non-officials may be regulated by the Administrative Ministries/ Departments in the following manner:-
(l)
Retired Govt. otficials nominated as Non-official in the Committees/Boards/Panels etc. :
TpUDA entitlement of these Non-officials will be same as per their entrtlement at the time of retirement as per
revised rates mentioned in this Department's O.M. No.'19030/01/2017-E.lV dated 13.07.2017.
(ll)
Persons from various fields nominated as Non-official in Committees/Boards/ Panels etc. :
TIVDA entitlement of these Non-official will be same as admissible to oflicers in Pay level-1'1 (Pre-revised
Grade Pay of Rs,6600/-) in the Pay l\4atrix. TA/DA Entitlements will be as under:-
Travel entitlement within the country - Economy class by Air or AC-ll by train.
D
iD Reimbursement for hotel accommodation/guest house of up to Rs.22501 per day.
iii) Reimbursement of non-Ac taxi charges of up to Rs.338l per day for travel within the city
iv) Reimbursement of food bills not exceeding Rs.900l per day.
(lll)
Eminent personalities nominated as Non.otficial in the Committees/Boards/Panels:
TA/DA entitlement of these Non-offlcials will be same as admissible to offlcers in Pay level 14 (pre+evised
Grade pay Rs.10,0001) in the Pay Matrix. TIVDA Entitlements will be as under:
i)
Regarding travel entitlement of these Non-officials, Secretary in the Administrative l\4inistry, in consultation
with the FA,,may allow eminent personalities who are Non-officials in the Committees/Boards/Panels etc., to
travel in Executive class inthe Domestic airlines within the country subject to the following conditions:-
a)
Where a Non-official is or was entitled to travel by air by Executive class under the rules of the
0rganization to which he belongs or might have belonged before retirement.
b) where the Administrative l\4inistry is satisfied that the travel by Executive class by air is the
customary mode of travel by the Non-official concerned in respect of journeys unconnected with the
performances of Govt. duty.
ii) Reimbursement for hotel accommodation/guest house of up to Rs 7500^ per day.
iii) Reimbursement of AC taxi charges as per actual for travel within the city.
iv) Reimbursement of food bills not exceeding Rs.12001 per day
Contd..2l
a
2
ln respect of Non-officials who are local, l\4ileage Allowance at the following rates will be admissible:-
i)
For retired Government officers. TIVDA as per their entitlement at the time of retirement as per
revised rates mentioned in this Department's O.lV. N0.19030/01/2017-E,lV dated 13.07.2017.
ii)
Other Non.officials nominated from various fields - Reimbursement of non-AC taxi charges of up
to Rs.338l per day for kavel within the city.
iii)
For eminent personalities nominated as Non-otficials - Reimbursement ofAC taxi charges as per
actualfor travel within the city.
3.
The TIVDA entitlements mentioned in Para I above will be subject to the following conditions:-
i)
These TfuDA entitlements will be applicable in case of Non-officials coming from outside. Local Non-
officials will not be entitled for TNDA.
ii)
Local Non-officials will be entitled for lvlileage Allowance only,
iii)
Cases seeking deviation from the above entitlements may be referred to M/o Finance giving full
justification for seeking deviation.
4.
These instructions will be effective from the date of issue ofthis O.l\4.
W
5.
This is issued with the approvalof Finance Minister.
(Nirmala Dev)
Deputy Secretary (EG)
Telefax. 23093276
1. Secretaries of all Ministries/ Departments (as per standard list)
2. Financial Advisors of all Ministries/ Departments as per standard list