,l9030/'t12017-E.tV
F. No.
Government of lndia
Department of Expenditure
E.lV Branch
North Block, New Delhi.
Dated 01.t February, 20,l8
OFFICE MEMOR,ANDUM
:-
sub T-ravelling Allourance Rules - lmplementation of the Recommendations of the seventh pay
Commission.
ConsEuent upon the issuance of this Department's O.M. of even number dated 13.07.2017 regarding
implementation of recommendations of 7th CPC on Travelling Allowance (TA), various references are being
received in this Department seeking clarification regarding admissibility of Daily Allowance (DA) in case Govt.
employee avails free boarding and lodging.
2.
The 6h CPC had changed the old concept of Daily Allowance by introducing reimbursement of Hotel
Accommodation, Food Bill and Taxi Charges on production of vouchers for the same. Since this was a new
concept, therefore, option was given to the employees to choose either lhe old 5h CPC single rate of DA or the
new system of DA based on reimbuBement of expenses as per 6rh cpc. The 7h cpc has recommended to
continue the concept of reimbursement of Hotel Accommodation, Food Bill and Taxi Charges with the exception
that vouchers are not required to be produced for Food Bills.
3.
The matter regarding admissibility of DA in case of free boarding and lodging, has been considered in
this Department. Daily Allowance is given to the Govt. employees as a reimbursement of the expenditure incurred
by him on tour for his stay, food and travel at that station. ln case of free boarding and lodging, the covl
employee, if incurring any expenditure on local travel, can claim the same as per para 2 E (i) and (iii) of the
Annexure to 0.M. of even No. dated 13.07.2017. The earlier system of giving 25o/o oI DA is being discontinued.
Also, after implementation of 7th CPC recommendations, the facility of DA at 5t CPC rates is done away with.
4.
This is issued with the approval of Secretary (Expenditure).
Hindi version is attached. fr*-
1li-irmata oev;
Deputy Secretary to the Govemment of lndia
To
All Ministries and Departments of the Govt. of lndia etc. as per standard distribution list.
Copy to: C&AG and U.P.S.C., etc. as per standard endorsement list.